it's wonderful to be back
i want to address three questions today
and um number one question is actually
super popular many uh young
uh
aspirational marketers ask me this
specific question and i want to share
that with you and some of you actually
asked this question a couple times as
well
that is i want to start a career in
digital marketing what are the first
steps i should take to do so
great great question and this is also
kind of interesting and applies to
students and also
any marketers who just
started their first job
and you don't know what you like and you
don't know what you want to do and from
my perspective there are a couple things
i want to share with you in terms of how
you can classify and categorize digital
marketing
digital marketing is such a broad field
right and it can be uh
seo search engine marketing right it can
be social media marketing it can be
digital content creation email marketing
even virtual event marketing so there
are so many disciplines that are
associated with digital marketing so
everybody is always very confused i want
to be a digital marketer what should i
do so there's one way is looking at the
different marketing disciplines
there's another way to categorize
digital marketing is by different uh
stages of a marketing
you have a marketing planning so there's
a digital marketing planning strategy
you have a digital content creation so
you are looking at stage only on digital
content creation and in that
is related to you know blog writing
social media post and
graphic design
video creations or the video productions
or whatnot right it's kind of like a
digital content creation then there's
another stage of marketing which is
digital content promotion or digital
promotion that can be paid media
organic outreach influencer marketing
again it can be organical pay right so
you are i'm looking at
the digital marketing based on the
different marketing stages and then of
course if you do a lot of digital
promotion you actually have to look into
data analytics so there's a performance
analytics part of digital marketing you
have to deal with
so i
break down the digital marketing in two
different type of way approaches one is
look at a different marketing
disciplines
the other one is digital marketing based
on how marketing is done from planning
down to execution down to analytics
once you break down the digital
marketing in the specific categories
that you can comprehend and understand
then you can say oh okay do i like the
strat uh uh strategic strategic planning
part of it do i like content creation
part of it or do i like campaigns and
also promotion part of it or i like to
do data analytics analytics now you can
actually narrow it down in terms of what
skill set or what field that you like to
understand is that helpful so take down
the the digital marketing marketing and
narrow it down to a field the way that
you you can say okay you know what
i am more into content creation and of
course within content creation there's
email writing there is a blog writing
there's a video creation and it may be a
virtual reality you know a production as
well so you have to look at the
different now you narrow it down to
another different elements within that
content creation and you determine what
you want to do
so that is one approach
to determine what are some of the first
steps that you can take is break down
the digital marketing in a way that you
understand you can digest and then pick
on specific field you want to go after
does that make sense
but
what if you look at all of them you just
feel like
i don't know what i want i know i get it
i still don't know what i want to do
when i grow up all right and i'm pretty
old and um if you still don't know what
you want my take on this is
just do anything to start is a great
start
if you are a writer you know what just
stop blogging if you are a graphic
designer get on upwork put yourself out
there and start promoting yourself that
you are graphic designer and you will do
anything to you know you will do stuff
to help them right get yourself out
there if you love tick-tock fantastic
you have been swiping and look at tons
of tik-tok what people are doing maybe
there's something you can offer why
don't you start creating content on
tick-tock
but there's one thing if you are a
content creator if you are asking any
kind of youtuber or youtube celebrity
or even ticktacker they will tell you if
you want to be you want to be a content
creator create content every single day
for 90 days
there's not much to it
right if you want to do something you
want to understand you know one aspect
of digital marketing if you start doing
that same thing every single day for 90
days
i can't commit to that
unfortunately a lot of time i have a
client projects that i have to do but if
you are just starting right do that
90 days challenge do the same thing do
using the same channel and find
something to share every single day
right do that for 90 days you will start
to understand
certain aspects of digital marketing you
will start fine-tuning the stuff that
you are going to do you know you need to
probably do an opening a little bit
differently you probably need to do a
closing a little bit differently you
probably have to say things a little bit
differently to get people's attention
for example
so
if you want to just do something the
first step like i said if you don't know
what you want to do find something and
then do that for 90 days is starting
point
let me know that's a good advice okay or
talk to me after 90 days and say you
know what pam that kind of sucks or you
know that's a great uh exercise to
actually understand and the kind of
flesh out
in terms of what you like to do or what
you don't like to do
so share with me and let me know so
that's the first question
in terms of uh want to start a career in
digital marketing so what are the first
steps that you can do
the second question
what are the best way to build an
audience with content
you know for
longest time even just five or six years
ago there is always a notion that if you
build um they will come
and uh
i think that statement was true for a
certain period of time in the past
however now
everybody is creating content everybody
is a content creator right so you even
though you are talking about yoga but
you really are competing with
your audience's time somebody who is a
yoga practitioner probably also is um
probably is also an amateur chef right
so
he or she might actually spending time
and looking into some baking videos not
looking into your as a yoga video
right so everybody is competing for the
audience times intention
and with that being said if you really
want to build audience with the content
you really need to give some thought in
terms of what you can offer
what can you offer to the audience that
they will find it beneficial and they
will come to you and say you know what
i'm going to talk to pam if i run into
this issue or i will check out pam's
channel when i have this specific
problem
um my take on this is you need to think
through in terms of what you can offer
and also what your audience's needs and
try to tie these two together and that's
very very important took me a long time
to understand that by the way
for a while when i write the content i
share what i know
but i'm not necessarily talking about it
and communica communicate in a way that
my audience can actually benefit i will
be talking about how to do things but
i'm not necessarily putting in a very
specific steps that they can actually
take and run with it does that make
sense so
rather than talking about what i know in
a way i want to talk about and which is
something i have done for a long period
of time i change it
now and try to structure some of my
learning and structure in a step logical
step that they can do
so my writing become very very
structuralized
and not so much about the sentiment
and the emotion
and
you know i try to balance with that
but most of the time i try to
create the content especially know-how
that my audience can take down and then
take action right away
so when i coming from that perspective
actually change how i write and also
change out how i build my content for my
audience
so what are the best way to build uh an
audience with content is try to
understand what you can offer but also
think from your audience perspective in
terms of how they will benefit and how
can you say that they can comprehend and
digest your information in a in an
easier way
it's you know it's kind of easy for me
to say this but when you come down to uh
execution sometimes it's pretty hard
because i do video production a lot of
time and jonah if jonah is listening who
is my community manager can tell me like
from time to time i kind of know my
topic very well but i'm not
communicating in a way that other people
can understand very easily does that
make sense so it does take time and
takes effort and also revision
to make sure that your content um is
clear and easy to understand
and another thing that's kind of
important to build the audience with
content is you need to have pay media
budget
in the past you can run organic uh um
you know marketing campaigns and expect
people to come but nowaday if you really
want to build the audience uh you need
to have a pay media budget associated
with it there's no other way out i'm
telling you i mean for some of the
some of you you kind of build your
audience organically that's great
but i would say 85 percent of the time
or brands they need to actually have
some sort of marketing budget pay
marketing budget uh that to uh kind of
give
um their content a little you know
a little lift to get more traffic and
which is okay there's nothing wrong with
that but i always advise my clients or
anybody i talk to when you build a
content make sure you also have a pay
media dollars or a certain kind of
budget to go with it to promote your
content to build the audience that that
you want
number three what are the benefits of
content marketing all right
the benefit of content marketing a lot
of people feel that the content is
actually a great way to drive conversion
especially in the b2b marketing that the
purchasing cycle is very long right and
when the purchasing cycle is very long
and sometimes take like uh six to eight
months to actually get a person to
convert and you want to keep your brand
or your product uh top of the mind of
your prospect and the best way to do
that is share content from time to time
right use content as a conversational
opener with your prospect that's the
biggest benefit actually ever content
marketing
is you share a timely content with your
prospect and hopefully they will find uh
the information useful and relevant and
they will reach out to you and then
start having conversation with you
and the way i see content marketing is
not necessarily just a top of the funnel
thought leadership type of play
i see the content marketing actually
drive conversion
accelerated conversion over the buyer's
journey
and um you know a lot of times people
will run different kind of campaigns or
they will share um
with your prospect in terms of they have
a certain kind of sales or they have a
certain kind of offering or they have a
certain kind of customer event
or even their products are have new
releases
and all those information are good
and use it as a conversational opener to
talk to your prospects and existing
customers
so in addition to share
um like
useful knowledge or know-how
uh with your prospects and the customers
uh through content
the biggest benefit i'm talking as a
business person the biggest benefit of
content marketing is drive conversions
right you want to move your prospects
from top of the funnel to the middle of
the funnel to you know the time that
they want to purchase or have a
conversation with your sales team
and if content is used correct uh used
nicely you can actually accelerate
conversion
but the devil is always in the detail
right what kind of content should be
created how do we write the content so
people don't feel like they've been uh
they've been
marketed or so too
that's actually a holy grail
and everybody does that differently and
from my perspective
a lot of time when i try to write a
piece of content and um uh lisa loffler
and or even uh ann henley can tell you
you can look at piece of a content
and you can count how many i and how
many you
right if you say i too many times that
means you are talking about yourself
but if you use you
uh many times that means you are talking
about your customers much more than you
talking about you know yourself
so i think having the indicators of
counting how many eyes and how many you
is kind of like important to
um it's an important signal to share
with you in terms of are you talking too
much about your own products and your
services or are you making the content a
little bit self-serving should you turn
that around and talking a little bit
more about your customers challenges
so the biggest benefit of content
marketing if you use right drive
conversions
okay move your prospects and the
customers from top of the funnel down to
the bottom of the funnel
and like i said and of course you want
to share the content that's useful and
relevant to them and they find it useful
and hopefully they will start a
conversation with